---
title: "Books I read in Jan 2019"
categories:
  - Books
tags:
  - Books
---

### **1. The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master - by Andrew Hunt, David Thomas**
*I read this book more than two times, and I read it again*. 

Published in 1999, this is a well-know book that every programmer should read. As its name, it's every practical. Best quote I like: 
>  We're challenging you to THINK about WHAT you're DOING WHILE you're DOING 

The book is organized in self-container chapters, so you can read in any order you like. Each chapter has problems, advices, exercies in many subjects.

Everytime I read it, I recognize more interested things. I'm writing a post that briefly highlight for this book.

### **2. Lập trình và cuộc sống(Programming and life) - Hồ sỹ Hùng**

*A Vietnamess translation version for blog.Coding Horror.com - Jeff Atwood*

*Thank to Hồ Sỹ Hùng for writing this book.*

Coding Horror is a famous blog, written by Jeff Atwood - co-founded Stack Overflow, I follow Coding Horror in years. And this is the first time I read a Vietnamese version for Coding Horror posts. Mr Hùng chose very great posts. Because he tried to translate some programming terms to Vietnamese, some points becomes hard to understand for beginer.

After reading this book, I go back to Coding Horror 2004 posts and dig them again, very interested.

### **3. To kill a mockingbird - by Harper Lee**
*I read Vietnamese version*

Published in 1960, winning the Pulitzer Prize and becomes one of the most wanted-books upto now. 

From the side of a child, I can see the fighting between a lawer with America society at that time. Each episode, I can see and learn a lot of things about the pure live.